[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: But
the biggest problem was I said,
that hardly ever happens.
That system one,
system one can't quantify.
System one thinks that not very
often is the same as never.
System one waits most greater than all.
It's just bad at math and
always relying on system one,
not on any kind of statistics or
real model, for what went wrong there.
So yeah, that hardly ever happens means
it happens, doesn't happen a lot but
it does happen.
And if you're trying to be perfect, you
can't allow for it to ever happen, right?
So start realizing that there's some
features that I simply want to avoid
all the time because they're slightly
more likely to produce errors.
And if we're gonna avoid
using those forms then I'm
gonna be spending less time in the abyss.
So a good style can help
produce better programs.
Style shouldn't be about
personal preference or
self expression or
things that you're used to,
it should be about what will
effectively reduce my error rate?
Not to help me reduce my keyboarding,
because it turns out keyboarding is in
the noise, that's not where we spend
our time, we spend our time debugging.
So if I can save time in debugging
by typing in a little bit
more code that turns out to
be a hugely good trade of.
So we can find some clues
about this literary style.
The Romans wrote Latin all in upper case
with no word breaks or punctuation and
that worked pretty well for
them for a long time.
Although there's some ambiguities,
for example,
the third line could be
read now wor DB reaks.
I don't know what that means.
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: But from my eye,
this is harder to copy.
Just cuz there's less redundancy in it,
it's a little bit harder.
But the Romans were able to deal with
this until Constantine established
Christianity as the state
religion of the Roman Empire.
And at that point it became necessary to
make copies of all these documents, and
distribute them all over the world.
But what they found was, they did not have
the originals for any of these documents.
And every copy they had were different,
none of the copies agreed.
So every time this stuff was copied,
errors were introduced.
And this was a problem for an institution
that was claiming its authority based on
the word and no body was sure
exactly what the word was.
So Medieval copyist introduced lowercase,
word breaks, and punctuation.
And this innovations helped
them to reduce the error rate.
Having this in the manuscript made
it easier for them to copy the text
without introducing new errors, and
that turned out to be hugely beneficial.
And one unexpected benefit of this was it
also made the documents easier to read.
So when Gutenberg started printing,
he copied these conventions because
they work, and we are still using them.
We have centuries and centuries of
experience using these literary patterns,
and they are in everything
that we publish now.
We have all been taught at
least since kindergarten and
probably earlier to
recognize these things.
So we know to put a space after comma and
not before a comma.
That's just good style, it's something
we've all been reading all of our lives.
So if you're a novelist and you're trained
to demonstrate your creative power.
You don't do that by putting your periods
at the beginning of your sentences,
instead of at the end.
No critics gonna say, wow,
what masterful use of punctuation.
No, as a novelist, you're gonna be
demonstrating your creativity by
the things that you're describing and the
technique that you use to describe them.
You'll at the same time slavish
conform to the rules of style,
because that's part of the deep
structure of what you're communicating,
that that's not what you play with.
>> Douglas Crockford: So good use of style
can help reduce the occurrence of errors.
We have centuries of
evidence that support this.
So one excellent manual on style is
The Elements of Style by William Strunk.
He self-published this
about 100 years ago.
Some of his advice is a little dated now
because English has continued to evolved
since then, but
most of its advice is still really good.
And a number of computer scientists
have recognized that and
witness style guides based on Strunk's
guide, applying his rules to English or
to programming languages,
and it's really effective.
So programs must communicate
clearly to people.
There are some who think that you just
have to get it pass to the compiler and
if the compiler gets it then that's
all you need to do, it's done.
But that's not true, if the program
is ever gonna have to run more than
once then it needs to be written so that
someone knows how to modify it in order
to improve it, or
at least understand what it does.
And it's not good enough to say, well,
somebody should be able to figure it out,
you don't wanna get the punctuation wrong.
Assuming that someone's gonna
have to work through it,
the same way that novelist shouldn't.
You know what?
The spellings and bad styles to be
in your work, even though people
could figure it out, that's not where you
want them spending their mental cycles.
You want them investing
all of their mental cycles
on understanding the deep stuff,
the important stuff.
So we should use elements of good
composition where applicable.
So we should put the space after
the comma, not in front of the comma.
We should not depart from the rules of
style that we've had for centuries,
unless we have solid data which shows
there's a clear benefit in this deviation.
If there's not that evidence then we
should stick to this stuff because
it's what most of us know and it does
help us to effectively communicate.
Now, programs have to be more
rigorous than writing has to be.
So we may need other style
rules to help us disambiguate.
For example, we use pairings for
a lot of things.
One of them to create and
invoke functions.
So we have a convention that you don't
have a space between a function name and
a paren, and that it helps us to
distinguish all of the other cases.
For example, there should be
a space here after the return.
Now, in some languages,
return might be a function,
in which case that line
is perfect the way it is.
But in JavaScript, it's not return
as a statement not a function and so
we should write it with a space there
to make it easier for the person who's
reading his program to understand
what is the role of that statement.
One of the good part in JavaScript is the
immediately invocable function expression.
This is the thing which allows
us to have modularity and
JavaScript because we can take advantage
of function scope to keep things
out of the global scope, and
that turns out to be hugely beneficial.
We'll talk a lot more about that later.
Unfortunately, JavaScript has some tactic
ambiguity if function appears in statement
position, then it's a different kind of
thing and we cannot immediately invoke it.
So someone discovered that if you
wrap the function in parentheses,
then it's no longer in a statement
position and then we can invoke it, and
so you see a lot of code like that.
But I think this misses an opportunity,
while this is sufficient to get it past
the compiler, I want to give a little
bit more information to the reader.
And I can do that by slightly
changing the parentheses.
Because I've got the invoking
parens out there,
just hanging out there like
a pair of dog balls, right?
>> Class: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
what's important here is the entire thing.
So I wanna wrap the entire
invocation expression in parens.
As a cue to the reader that what's
important here is not the function,
it's the invocation of the function.
And so I want the parens to be
inclusive of the whole thing.
Again, the compiler doesn't require this,
but I think good style does.
Now, I told you about semicolon insertion.
Here's another of the things
that it'll get wrong.
You would hope that there'd be
a semicolon inserted there but
there isn't, so this will fail.
Instead of assigning y to x,
you will assign y invoked as a function
passing the result of the other
function as its argument,
which is probably not what you intended.
My advice is never rely
on semicolon insertion,
always put the semicolons
in the right places.
Now, in most cases,
this doesn't happen, but
again it sometimes does happen
which means it happens.
And so you need to adopt a programming
style which helps defend you against these
sorts of mishaps,
it'll make you look smarter.
Another innovation that JavaScript added,
it was a good intention but
it didn't work out right,
was the with statement.
So here we have this with
statement in green and
it will expand into one
of these four statements.
Now, can anybody guess which
of those four it will become?
>> Class: Second one?
>> Douglas Crockford: It's a trick
question, it could be any of them.
There's no way to tell from reading
the program which one it's going to be.
In fact,
every time that statement executes,
it could potentially be a different one.
So if we're trying to write programs which
clearly communicate what they do, we can't
do that if we're using forums which we
cannot predict what they're going to do.
So my advice is don't use the with
statement, you simply don't need it.
And by taking it out of your working set,
there's a whole class of
confusions which go away.
Now, there's some people who
have discovered a lot of very
clever uses foo with the statement.
And they say, well, I should be able to
use it to do those very clever things
because it's sometimes useful.
But my argument is not that it isn't
useful, I'm saying there's never
a case where it is never confusing and
confusion is the thing we want to avoid.